We will consider two questions:
What is the link between peace and courage,
and how can we help others to take courage?
Let’s begin with reading John 16:33.
On the evening before his death,
Jesus told his apostles at John 16:33:
“I have said these things to you
“so that by means of me you may have peace.
“In the world you will have tribulation,
“but take courage!
I have conquered the world.”
The key words are “peace” and “courage.”
Now, The Watchtower
from which our comments are taken
uses the same verse
in connection with the ransom arrangement.
The article states that the ransom
is an expression of courage.
Indeed, we can say that courage
is connected to the ransom in two ways:
For Jesus, paying the ransom
required courage.
For us, receiving the ransom
gives us courage.
Now, before we thus consider
the expression “take courage,”
let’s first look at the word “peace.”
What is the peace
that we receive by means of Jesus?
Well, it’s the inner calmness,
the tranquility, that we feel
when we perceive
that we are approved and loved
by Jehovah and by Jesus.
And what is the reason
why we have such inner peace?
It is because of the ransom arrangement.
The ransom makes it possible for us
to be reconciled to God,
to be brought back into a relationship
with Jehovah.
Now, what results from having peace?
Well, look at John 14:27.
Earlier that same evening,
Jesus told his apostles:
“I leave you peace;
I give you my peace. . . .
“Do not let your hearts be troubled
nor let them shrink out of fear.”
So “the peace of God”
that we receive by means of Jesus
prevents our heart
from shrinking out of fear.
In other words, having peace
will give us courage.
Now, to illustrate the link
between peace and courage,
think of a flower
—let’s say a tulip.
A tulip has a bulb and a flower.
Let’s compare the bulb with peace
and the flower with courage.
Now, just as a tulip grows out of a bulb
that a gardener placed in the soil,
so courage grows out of inner peace
that Jehovah put in our heart.
Without a bulb, there is no flower.
Without inner peace,
there is no godly courage.
So, what do we need to do in order to obtain
peace and courage?
Well, there is a saying
that points in the right direction.
The saying is
that a Bible that is falling apart
usually belongs to a person who is not.
Indeed, we need to use the Bible often.
We need to study it;
we need to meditate upon it.
The more we do so,
the more courageous we will be.
Now let’s return to John 16:33,
and consider the two words of our daily text:
“Take courage!”
What is the meaning?
Well, “take courage” has
the same meaning as “take heart.”
In fact, the word “heart”
and the word “courage”
come from the same Latin word, “cor.”
So “take courage” means
to be encouraged because of something.
Now as you can see on the monitor,
the Bible records five instances
where Jesus used the expression
“Take courage!”
In speaking to a paralyzed man,
Jesus said: “Take courage . . . !”
In speaking to a woman
who suffered from a flow of blood,
Jesus said: “Take courage . . . !”
In speaking to the frightened apostles
who saw him walking on the sea,
Jesus said: “Take courage!”
In speaking to his apostles
during the evening before his death,
Jesus said: “Take courage!”
In appearing to the apostle Paul,
Now, when we take a closer look
at these five instances,
we note that Jesus followed a pattern
whenever he used that expression.
Each time after saying “take courage,”
what did Jesus do?
He added a reason.
Jesus did not only give a command
but also a reason
that helped his listeners to understand
why  they could be encouraged.
For example, look at Acts 23:11,
where Jesus spoke to Paul.
Now, at the end of the first sentence,
we see the words: “Take courage!”
Then, what is the next word that Jesus said?
“For”
—meaning, for the reason that, or because.
So the word for  introduces the reason
why Paul could take courage.
Thus, we could read that part of the verse
as follows: “Take courage!”
Why?
‘For [the reason that] just as you have given
a thorough witness about me in Jerusalem,
so you must also bear witness in Rome.’
The clear reason
that Jesus added to his commands
no doubt encouraged Paul.
Now, in the other instances
where Jesus said “take courage,”
the word for  is implied.
The monitor shows the reasons
that Jesus added in the other instances.
Matthew 9:2: “Take courage . . . !”
Why?
“Your sins are forgiven.”
Matthew 9:22: “Take courage!”
Why?
“Your faith has made you well.”
Matthew 14:27: “Take courage . . . !”
Why?
“It is I; do not be afraid.”
John 16:33: “Take courage!”
Why?
“I have conquered the world.”
Now, how can we imitate
the pattern that Jesus set?
When encouraging others from the platform
or in a private conversation,
we tell them not only what to do
but also why  they should do so.
We try to persuade their mind
by giving reasons for their actions.
Now, what else do we see
in the pattern that Jesus followed?
In encouraging others, he tried
not only to persuade the mind
but also to move the heart.
We can see that in three of the examples
that we just considered.
As you see on the monitor, here is example 1:
At Matthew 9:2,
Jesus did not just say “Take courage . . . !”
But he said to the paralyzed man:
“Take courage, child!”
What a touching way
to address that paralyzed man!
He must have felt secure
like a child in the arms of his father.
No doubt Jesus’ words
moved the man’s heart.
Example 2: At Matthew 9:22,
Jesus did not just say “Take courage . . . !”
But he said to the woman suffering
from a flow of blood:
“Take courage, daughter!”
How tenderly Jesus treated the ailing woman
by calling her “daughter!”
It was a word of affection
that Jesus had never used before
when addressing a woman.
No doubt Jesus’ words
moved the woman’s heart.
Example 3: On the last evening
before Jesus death,
he was together with his apostles
in the upper room in Jerusalem.
Now, let’s imagine what happened
shortly before Jesus told them:
“Take courage!”
After instituting the Memorial,
Jesus looked around
at these 11 faithful friends.
There they were.
Peter
—Jesus couldn’t help but love him—
so impulsive but so sincere.
There was James and his younger brother John,
once “sons of thunder,”
but how they had changed for the better!
—still zealous but also compassionate.
And there was Andrew,
one of the first disciples he talked to,
still going strong.
As Jesus looked from face to face,
a feeling of deep affection
must have welled up in him.
At that moment, he felt so close to them
that he was moved to address them in a way
he had never addressed them before.
He called them “little children.”
No doubt Jesus’ words
moved the hearts of the apostles.
Shortly thereafter, he told them:
“Take courage!”
Now, what lesson do we learn from Jesus
in these three examples?
As we try to encourage others
in the congregation,
at Bethel, or in other locations
where we serve,
we want to convey to them
our warm and sincere feelings of friendship.
We want to move their hearts.
So, what are the two main points
of our brief discussion?
We have challenges; we have trials,
but because of having peace,
we can be courageous.
And when encouraging others,
we try to persuade their mind
and move their heart
as we tell them: “Take courage!” my friend,
for Jehovah is our Helper.